KEP-3352: Aggregated Discovery to GA (#4472)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-api-machinery/3352-aggregated-discovery/README.md

k8s-triage for those tests:
https://storage.googleapis.com/k8s-triage/index.html -->

Integration tests

> - test/integration/apiserver/discovery/discovery_test.go

Reviewer: Nit: Those should be links not to code, but to testgrid, based on the [template](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/NNNN-kep-template/README.md). Same for the e2e section.

#### GA

> - TBD

Reviewer: A few nits to earlier parts of this doc:
1. Make sure to update the `Release Signoff Checklist` as appropriate. 
2. In the `Test Plan` section please make sure to update appropriate sections with links to testgrid showing passing tests and listing current test coverage.

Author: Updated

  - AggregatedDiscovery controller does not purge old APIServices from cache ([Issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/115301))
  - Aggregated Discovery doesn't show aggregated apiservices as Stale before initial health check ([Issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/115303))

> - New API type `apidiscovery.k8s.io/v2` is introduced

Reviewer: Should the `Design Details` section use the v2 api, not the v2beta1? With a pointer to `Version Skew` laying out details about handing both of these?

Author: Updated

### Version Skew Strategy

When moving from beta to GA, we will introduce a new API group version `apidiscovery.k8s.io/v2`.

All clients v1.26 to v1.29 will only request for the beta API group version `apidiscovery.k8s.io/v1beta2`.

> To accomodate skew between the client and server (older client and newer server), the server will serve both v2 and v2beta1 versions based on the client request headers. The apiserver will continue to support v2beta1 until its deprecation in Kubernetes v1.33.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To accommodate skew between the client and server (older client and newer server), the server will serve both v2 and v2beta1 versions based on the client request headers. The API server will continue to support v2beta1 until its outright removal in Kubernetes v1.33.
```
A release offering (stable) v2 triggers _deprecation_ of all the alpha and beta v2something API versions..

Reviewer 2: Superseded: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4472/files#r1474732684

> To accommodate skew between the client and server (older client and newer server), the server will serve both v2 and v2beta1 versions based on the client request headers. The apiserver will continue to support v2beta1 until its deprecation in Kubernetes v1.33.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To accommodate skew between the client and server (older client and newer server), the server will serve both v2 and v2beta1 versions based on the client request headers. The API server will continue to support v2beta1 until its removal in Kubernetes v1.33.
```
A release offering (stable) v2 triggers _deprecation_ of all the alpha and beta v2something API versions..

Author: Updated, thanks!

> To accommodate skew between an older server and newer client, starting in v1.30, clients will request for both v2 and v2beta1 by sending a list of group versions requested (in order from v2, v2beta1, unaggregated) and the server will return the first group version that matches. In the case of older servers, the server will only be able to match v2beta1. The client will support both v2 and v2beta1. This allows a newer client to communicate with an older server that supports only the beta version.

Author: ack, yeah it should be clients must. client-go will be set to always do this.

> To accommodate skew between an older server and newer client, starting in v1.30, clients will request for both v2 and v2beta1 by sending a list of group versions requested (in order from v2, v2beta1, unaggregated) and the server will return the first group version that matches. In the case of older servers, the server will only be able to match v2beta1. The client will support both v2 and v2beta1. This allows a newer client to communicate with an older server that supports only the beta version.

Reviewer 3: I could also imagine this being like normal HTTP content negotiation where if a client is only capable of processing v2 then they MAY only sent, but if they do this they need to be ready to tolerate a 406 Not Acceptable style response.

> To accommodate skew between an older server and newer client, starting in v1.30, clients will request for both v2 and v2beta1 by sending a list of group versions requested (in order from v2, v2beta1, unaggregated) and the server will return the first group version that matches. In the case of older servers, the server will only be able to match v2beta1. The client will support both v2 and v2beta1. This allows a newer client to communicate with an older server that supports only the beta version.

Author: Updated the wording a bit. Clients that only support v2beta1 will continue to be supported until (v1.27-v1.33), and clients that only support v2 will only work with servers v1.30+. That's why in the intermediary stages when client and server could be different versions, we encourage clients to be able to handle both.

### Version Skew Strategy

When moving from beta to GA, we will introduce a new API group version `apidiscovery.k8s.io/v2`.

All clients v1.26 to v1.29 will only request for the beta API group version `apidiscovery.k8s.io/v1beta2`.

To accommodate skew between the client and server (older client and newer server), the server will serve both v2 and v2beta1 versions based on the client request headers. The API server will continue to support v2beta1 until its removal in Kubernetes v1.33.

To accommodate skew between an older server and newer client, starting in v1.30,
client-go will request for both v2 and v2beta1 by sending a list of group versions

> requested (in order from v2, v2beta1, unaggregated) and the server will return the

Reviewer 2: How are these actually negotiated? If it's done using `Accept:` headers, we should use the `q` parameter to indicate preference.

Author: Yes it's through `Accept` headers. We've been using the parameters `g=<group>,v=<version>,as=<kind>` to denote the preference, and passing a list of acceptable gvks so the server can fallback if the first type is not supported. I added an example in the section:

```
Accept: application/json;as=APIGroupDiscoveryList;v=v2;g=apidiscovery.k8s.io,application/json;as=APIGroupDiscoveryList;v=v2beta1;g=apidiscovery.k8s.io,application/json
```

Reviewer 3: We should say this in the KEP.

client-go will request for both v2 and v2beta1 by sending a list of group versions
requested (in order from v2, v2beta1, unaggregated) and the server will return the
first group version that matches. Concretely, this is done using `Accept` headers with a single request.

```
Accept: application/json;as=APIGroupDiscoveryList;v=v2;g=apidiscovery.k8s.io,application/json;as=APIGroupDiscoveryList;v=v2beta1;g=apidiscovery.k8s.io,application/json
```

In the case of older servers, the server will only
be able to match v2beta1. The client will support both v2 and v2beta1. This allows a
newer client to communicate with an older server that supports only the beta version.
Other clients should follow the same convention to support version skew, though a client
that is only capable of processing v2 is sufficient if it only communicates with v1.30+ servers.
Otherwise, the client will need to be ready to tolerate a 406 Not Acceptable response and handle
the error appropriately.

If there is no skew and both server and client are v1.30+, clients will still request for v2 and v2beta1, and the server will match the first group version and return v2.

> 

Reviewer: A few comments to latter parts of the doc:
1. Are you planning to start the deprecation of v2beta1 with the introduction of v2? If so, it should be explained in the appropriate section below. 
2. Missing question `###### Can enabling / using this feature result in resource exhaustion of some node resources (PIDs, sockets, inodes, etc.)?` from the [template](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/NNNN-kep-template/README.md).
3. Missing answer for `###### What are other known failure modes?` in the PRR questionnaire. 
4. Empty `Implementation History` section.

Author: Updated

> ## Production Readiness Review Questionnaire

Reviewer 3: For PRR:

We should include an answer to "What are the reasonable SLOs (Service Level Objectives) for the enhancement?"  In particular, what's the SLO for client requests to aggregated discovery?

For "What steps should be taken if SLOs are not being met to determine the problem?" The feature gate will go away as part of promotion to GA. Once this happens, what steps should be taken?  E.g. if there is a very large number of CRDs, or a single CRD with a very large OpenAPI schema, or similar problems with aggregated API servers, how would someone figure out the the SLO is being violated because of one of these things?

Author: Updated this section. I think it's fine to stick with the existing Kubernetes SLO for a non-streaming read-only API call which has p99 < 1s.

### Version Skew Strategy

When moving from beta to GA, we will introduce a new API group version `apidiscovery.k8s.io/v2`.

> All clients v1.26 to v1.29 will only request for the beta API group version `apidiscovery.k8s.io/v1beta2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All clients v1.26 to v1.29 will only request for the beta API group version `apidiscovery.k8s.io/v2beta1`.
```

  availability
- when the KEP was retired or superseded -->

- v1.26: Aggregated Discovery KEP is merged and moves to alpha

> - v1.27: Aggregated Discovery moves to beta

Reviewer: Add: v1.30: Aggregated Discovery moves to stable
